---
title: Exile
subtitle:
date: 2025-02-01T13:17:00-07:00
author: R. A. Salvatore
isbn: 9780593873076
rating: 3
image: https://cdn.wonderfulfrog.com/images/books/exile-cover.jpg
tags:
  - fiction
  - fantasy
  - dungeons-and-dragons
year: 1990
hasSpoilers: true
---

I enjoyed this book for exploring the Underdark in greater detail. Getting to see more denizens on the world and their cultures. Of particular note were the deep gnomes or _svirfneblin_. I’m glad we got to see more of Blingdenstone.

Belwar was my favourite character of the book, despite it being mostly about Drizzt. I was amazed at his compassion for Drizzt despite how cruelly he was treated by other drow. The survivor’s guilt is a struggle that he wracks himself with.

This book also felt like it was setting up the format for future books: The Adventures of Drizzt and Friends. Drizzt meets a cast of characters and they all go on some kind of journey together. I love it. Drizzt is the one constant on a quest, while newcomers are introduced (and eventually say goodbye).

A darker side of Drizzt is introduced as well. The hunter he relied on for his prowess is also one his greatest weaknesses. He struggles to control his inner-self that was borne of a cruel and ruthless society.

The coming rematch of Drizzt and Zak builds through the whole book as his former (now undead) weapons master stalks the exiled Drizzt. He seems always just out of reach, but never far away. Their final clash was satisfying, and Zak’s brief moments of clarity offered a satisfying closure for his character. Yet I feel like we may see him again one day. I don’t know how (or why), but he feels too good to leave here.

The book ends on hopeful note as Drizzt finally arrives at the surface. Now his real adventures begin!
