---
title: Fallout 4
platform: PC
image: https://cdn.wonderfulfrog.com/Fallout_4_cover_art.jpg
tags: ["rpg", "action", "single player"]
year: 2015
---

I ran into two different gamebreaking bugs while playing the game and ended up reloading a save from hours before. I had to replay quite a bit of the game, but in the end it was worth it. Anyone thinking about picking up the game soon I'd be prepared for some annoying bugs - or better yet wait for a few patches first.

Story and ending wise I feel like things fell short. It was an ending, I'll give it that, but it didn't resolve things very well. There isn't really an epilogue, usually in the older games you'd find out how the different factions ended up after your actions in the game. It's a nice touch and its omission is sorely missed. It cheapens the ending, and makes it feel incomplete.

The dialog system has definitely been dumbed down. For one thing your choices aren't fully written out (you select "Help" and your character says "Sure I'll help out"). The option you choose in a dialogue choice might not be what you wanted or how you wanted to phrase your response. It also feels like what you say ultimately has no consequence in the conversation. I reloaded my save a few times to explore different options - beyond the immediate response being different, the conversation carried on normally which felt kinda off. The choices didn't cause any actual branching - which I'm pretty sure they did in previous games. Each choice still lead you to every single option more or less.

The side content is great and I got lost in taking quest after quest for hours. Gun modding is a welcome addition and hope it stays in - although I would like to be able to assemble a gun from scratch instead of modifying base guns (which there are only a handful of). Invincible companions yes - but I imagine many people are like me and consider companion death a failure state, so it's more of a quality of life thing to me. I believe there are ways to make them hostile toward you, which does allow you to kill them if it happens.

I guess knowing your companion cannot die trivializes tense encounters somewhat... but at the very least companions can get incapacitated and slump to the ground and be useless until the fight is over. Another annoyance with dialogue - there are no checks save for Charisma now. I'm pretty sure there were some options in older games when you had high Intelligence for example...

Overall, it's a good game. An average Fallout game. For anyone fresh to the series, I think it makes a decent starting point, although if you liked what's inside you'll likely find more depth in the previous games. Pick it up when it goes on sale.
