---
title: "2024 Recap"
date: 2024-12-31T10:00:00-07:00
excerpt: All that happened in 2024.
tags:
  - in-review
---

There's no use in sugarcoating it. This year sucked for me. The highlights (or lowlights, if you will) would be getting laid off - twice. I've spent at least half this year job hunting or in a state of thinking about job hunting. It's demoralizing and soul-crushing. The market is brutal right now. Mental health-wise, I've had some incredibly low points.

All that said though, I'm here. I'm upright. I'm still alive. If not for the incredible support of my wife, my family, and my friends... I'm not confident I could've typed the previous sentence.

This year also held a celebration of life for a friend of mine that sadly passed away last year. I'd only known him for around 2 years, but he was an incredible person. He would always make time for those in his life. We attended the celebration of life and I was moved by how many people he had impacted. He was only in his 20s. I think about him every now and then, and I miss him.

Despite how shitty 2024 has been for myself (and I imagine many others), there have been many moments of joy and happiness that offset these gloomy days. It helps to remember them especially in those darker moments as a source of light and hope.

I've enjoyed being able to spend so much time with people in my life. I'm cherishing all the conversations and moments we have together. I've had some especially great deep conversations that have me rethinking my path in the future, and how I can take care of myself in a constructive way.

One of my favourite theatre shows this year was _[Rat Academy](https://intrepidtheatre.com/shows/rat-academy/)_. I didn't have high expectations for this, but I walked away completely charmed and feeling so happy. If this show is ever in your town I high encourage you to see it. You won't regret it!

Another favourite show of mine was [Bema Production](https://bemaproductions.com/)'s _A Jewish Sing-a-long Christmas?_ which was pure joy. It was a sing-a-long as advertised, but a perfect amount of learning interspersed with every performance. I was surprised to know how many of our staple "Christmas songs" came from Jewish songwriters! I walked away feeling giddy _and_ educated, which is a rare treat.

I thoroughly enjoyed _[Murdoch Mysteries in Concert](https://victoriasymphony.ca/concerts/murdoch-mysteries-in-concert/)_. As a _Murdoch_ enthusiast, this felt like it was made for me. We were treated to none other than Yannick Bisson as the host for the evening, and our own murder mystery to solve! The live renditions of pieces from the show were excellent. My favourite segment though was when the show's composer Robert Carli came on stage and walked us through how we would compose various themes for the show - live! It was a joy to see the soundtrack come to life, and performed right in front of you!

Fringe this year was excellent. My favourite shows were _[Horseface](https://intrepidtheatre.com/shows/horseface/)_, _[40 Year Old Puberty](https://intrepidtheatre.com/shows/40-year-old-puberty/)_, and _[Are You Lovin' It?](https://intrepidtheatre.com/shows/are-you-lovin-it/)_

We had a wonderful time seeing a performance of _Much Ado About Nothing_, while outside (with Craigdarroch Castle acting as a backdrop) and enjoying a picnic at the same time!

We learned a lot about bats this year with a [bat walk](https://hat.bc.ca/volunteer/guided-bat-walk) put on by the CRD and HAT (Habitat Acquisition Trust). There was a lot of learning and bat facts (as expected). They saved the best for last as we got to see bats _in action_! It was really special watching all the bats swooping out of their house to begin their nightly feeding.

There were many many board game nights that we got to host (and visit others) that were a wonderful way to wind down a busy week.

Early in Spring we did high tea at the [Abkhazi Gardens](https://www.abkhaziteahouse.com/), which is always a warm and joyful time. Not to mention the delicious food and tea. A perfect date.

The greatest highlight of this year though has to be being married to my wonderful wife for a whole year. I'm looking forward to another (and another, and another, and...) next year.

## What About Media?

I'm planning on posting recaps about my favourite media of 2024 in separate posts. I started writing it for all in one post, but it's getting rather long!

## The Year Ahead

There is reason enough for feeling unsettled heading into 2025. But I don't want to get bogged down by that. I am hopeful for the future. I think 2025 is the year I'll find the right job for me (perhaps it's in a different industry?). We have fun plans in the works already. There are things to look forward to.

I have hope for the next year. I hope you do too.
